# UX Design

In this program, Students will learn:

- Discovery and User Research
- Product Ideation
- Usability Research
- Wireframes and Prototyping
- High-Fidelity Design
- Basic HTML and CSS

Following the core curriculum and labs, Students will take an Independent Study and an additional unit of labs to focus on building their portfolio.

For more information and details about what Students will cover in each module, sprint, and unit, please visit the [Training Kit](http://learn.lambdaschool.com).

## March 24 - 25, 2020 Messages:

- FAQs
  - If I want to continue with UX, can I? Will I be able to finish my education here on schedule?
    - Yes! We are happy you want to continue in UX! You can absolutely finish your education here. We are still 100% committed to you and your success if you stay. Staff and instructors will continue to offer instruction, support, job preparation, and 1:1 coaching.
    - UX students who continue in the program will also receive the same level of continued support as all Lambda students through career coaching, mentorship program participation, guided job search activities in Lambda X, and matched hiring opportunities sourced from our outcomes team for graduated students who engage with our programs.
  - Why is this happening to UX specifically?
    - Please see [Caleb’s blog post](https://lambdaschool.com/the-commons/an-update-on-the-status-of-our-ux-design-program), which outlines the history and reasoning.
  - Is the UX department dissolving?
    - The UX program is continuing for our current students
    - We are not accepting any new admissions for the future at this time
    - The current UX students will have a program and dedicated support for the remainder of their program
  - What if I am concerned about my UX skills - specifically what if I think there is a big gap between where I am currently and where I need to be to get a job?
    - Our UX instruction team will work with you to figure out where your gaps are and create an individualized plan for you.
  - If we stay in UX - what is planned to help us find jobs?
    - We are still 100% committed to you and your success if you stay and continue to be engaged. Staff and instructors will continue to offer instruction, support, job preparation, portfolio support, and 1:1 coaching. UX students who continue in the program will also receive the same level of continued support as all Lambda students through career coaching, mentorship program participation, guided job search activities in Lambda X, and matched hiring opportunities sourced from our outcomes team for graduated students who engage with our programs.
  - What does endorsement and match look like?
    - Endorsement does not change! You will still work closely with Lisa, David, and Elizabeth to get your portfolio and resume materials to the hiring manager bar.
    - After you get endorsed, the sourcing team will work to help you to find the best job opportunities for your goals and skills!
    - Please note that all students should also be searching for and applying to jobs that they find outside of the match program.
  - No one told us we could switch programs, when did this happen?
    - Documentation was given to all UX students about program switch during both messages about the pause ([Link November & February]())
  - If I switch programs, how does it impact my ISA? Do I have to start at the beginning of the program? Do I have to do PCW?
    - Depending on the program you choose to switch to - there are requirements prior to joining the curriculum.
    - If you decide to switch - we will let you know what you need to do.
    - You do not need to attend Lambda Launch, but will instead jump in to the first day on April 6, 2020.
    - Your ISA continues - one ISA.
  - If I switch tracks, can I continue to get UX support?
    - You can stay in touch with and request support from those from the UX team that you’ve worked with, but the UX staff will be primarily associated with those that have remained in the UX program.
  - If I switch tracks, can I still get UX endorsement?
    - The endorsement process is particular to the program that you are in. If you would like to get endorsed through the UX program, you should continue in the UX program.
  - Why did this announcement come out when some students were on break?
    - There are a number of announcements that are coming out this week and next that impact both full and part time students. The original announcement to all students references this and asks that regardless of students choosing to take a full break - students need to continue to check Slack.
  - Why were students approached separately through a DM?
    - Because this is an individual decision that impacts everyone differently and out of respect for everyone’s privacy, we wanted to provide students with space for individual conversations to feel empowered to ask the questions they had and make the best decision for them
  - Will there be a Q&A or the option to discuss the arbitration process with a Lambda staff member?
    - We sent the information as a DM in Slack so each of you would have a direct line with a staff member in addition to receiving information through FrontDesk. If you haven’t received answers to your question, you can request a meeting with someone through FrontDesk. There is no Q&A planned at this time.
  - If I did not attend the UX Zoom meeting last night, how can I get access to the information that was discussed?
    - While some UX students met last night to discuss their thoughts on the UX decision, this was not an official meeting hosted by Lambda staff. If you did not attend, you did not miss any information or program updates. For easy reference, all information has been made available to UX students in writing via DM and is accessible publicly [here](https://lambdaschool.com/the-commons/an-update-on-the-status-of-our-ux-design-program). Should you like to connect further to discuss your individual situation or options, please feel free to respond to the DM you received or reach out to FrontDesk.
  - Why was I not given the option to arbitrate earlier?
    - All students have the opportunity to arbitrate if they have a dispute about their ISA - arbitration is written into the ISA contract.
    - FairClaims is being offered for a short period of time for current UX students only to give a remote, online option.
    - If students choose not to arbitrate through FairClaims, they still have the option to arbitrate through the terms outlined in the ISA contract.
    - Arbitration decisions can include, but are not limited to: uphold the full ISA, reduce the amount of your ISA, cancel your ISA, or decide you owe a portion of or the full amount of your ISA immediately. The answer depends on the arbitrator’s analysis of your case and on the ISA contract itself.
    - There is more important and detailed information you’ll receive if you request it.
  - The message said that I only have three days to decide. Is that true?
    - See deadlines above.
    - The time period is strictly for determining **if you want additional information** about the arbitration process.
    - If you request arbitration information, you’ll have until **April 8th** to decide if you want to go through the FairClaims process.
  - If I choose to withdraw without arbitration - is my ISA cancelled?
    - No - if you choose to withdraw without arbitration, your ISA stays intact, please see your ISA.
  - What are my options if I want my ISA reduced?
    - The ISA naturally includes protections regarding the amount you pay for the tuition for the programs Lambda School provided. Like any school, part of the value of the program is in the experience and no two students will necessarily take away the same learnings even when taught the same skills.
    - That said, any dispute of the ISA, including asking for a reduction in the cap, must go through arbitration.
    - Arbitration decisions can include, but are not limited to: uphold the full ISA, reduce the amount of your ISA, cancel your ISA, or decide you owe a portion of or the full amount of your ISA immediately. The answer depends on the arbitrator’s analysis of your case and on the ISA contract itself.
  - I feel the value of the program is not reflected in what I paid or would pay.
    - The ISA naturally includes protections regarding the amount you pay for the tuition for the programs Lambda School provided.
    - Any dispute over the cost of the ISA will be decided through arbitration
    - Arbitration decisions can include, but are not limited to: uphold the full ISA, reduce the amount of your ISA, cancel your ISA, or decide you owe a portion of or the full amount of your ISA immediately. The answer depends on the arbitrator’s analysis of your case and on the ISA contract itself.
    - As outlined in Caleb’s post about the decision to indefinitely postpone the program, we outlined areas where certain aspects of the program were not up to our high standards . Given the unique nature of everyone’s experience and how potential gaps people felt were addressed, we have simplified the process of arbitration so each student can choose to pursue what makes the most sense for them.
  - If the arbitrator makes a decision I don’t like, can I back out or change my mind?
    - No. Arbitration decisions are final, legally binding and court enforced.
    - If you choose to arbitrate you need to understand that the outcome that you are looking for may or may not happen.
    - Arbitration decisions can include, but are not limited to: uphold the full ISA, reduce the amount of your ISA, cancel your ISA, or decide you owe a portion of or the full amount of your ISA immediately. The answer depends on the arbitrator’s analysis of your case and on the ISA contract itself.
    - There is more detailed and important information on this should you request it.
  - I haven’t heard back on my email yet requesting information.
    - We are responding to messages in the order received. You should hear back soon.

### Summary

- While yesterday we announced the indefinite pause of new enrollment to the UX Program, we want to assure you that the UX program will continue for those currently enrolled. As always, we remain 100% committed to you and your success if you stay and continue to be engaged.
- Staff and instructors will continue to offer instruction, support, job preparation, and 1:1 coaching. UX students who continue in the program will also receive the same level of continued support as all Lambda students through career coaching, mentorship program participation, guided job search activities in Lambda X, and matched hiring opportunities sourced from our outcomes team for graduated students who engage with our programs.
- In addition to the announcement, we sent a message to each UX student to provide additional options for their ISA through a streamlined arbitration process, through [FairClaims](https://www.fairclaims.com/).
  - Students do not have to go through arbitration now. It is entirely optional.
  - Arbitration is an option for all students who have an ISA.
  - FairClaims is a temporary option for arbitration for current UX students only that allows for faster, online arbitration.
  - UX students will still have the option of arbitration after the deadline per the ISA, though it will not be through FairClaims.
- There were a number of questions about the deadline that was included in the message. We want to clarify those deadlines:

<aside>
❗ **Friday, March 27, 2020, at 5PM Pacific**
Deadline for requesting arbitration information specific to FairClaims through isainquiry@lambdaschool.com. The information has important explanations of the process. **Wed, April 8, 2020, at 5PM Pacific**
Deadline to decide if you will go through arbitration process using FairClaims                       **Friday March 27, 2020 Program switch** - students in the UX program were given an extension to switch to a different program in Lambda School. Normally the policy states that students need to do this prior to finishing unit 2. This option was announced to UX students in November and February. We are closing that option after this Friday and going back to our normal policy.

</aside>

## February 5, 2020 Announcement:

We wanted to let you know that we’ve decided to continue the UX admissions pause. We’re reaching out to every UX student directly to let them know about this update. We thought about this for a long time, and ultimately this decision was made in order to focus all of our attention on our current students and helping them find the best jobs possible.

Working in UX is incredibly rewarding and fun. This makes UX jobs hard to land because they’re some of the most sought after positions. Continuing the pause enables us to work with you 1:1 to ensure you’re showcasing your best work in this competitive pool of applicants.

We’ve deeply considered how continuing the pause will impact flex and every part of the program. We’ve prepared a FAQ to address some of the questions you might have. But, please reach out to Nick Basile directly if you have any others.

- FAQ
  - I’m in UX10 or UXPT4, how will flex operate with the continued pause?
    - Flex will continue to operate as usual. Please refer to the [Student Guide](../Flex%20327badd4502a4fc099db0effa1e69474.md) for more details on how flex works.
  - I’m in UX4-9 or UXPT1-3, how will flex operate with the continued pause?
    - Flex will continue to operate as usual. Please refer to the [Student Guide](../Flex%20327badd4502a4fc099db0effa1e69474.md) for more details on how flex works.
  - What happens if I go on hiatus?
    - If you go on hiatus and can return to a cohort or flex group, then you will be placed in one. If there is no viable option for you to join, then Student Success will review your options and status in the program and help you join at an appropriate spot. Please refer to the [Student Guide](../Academic%20Policies%20eb87544251094df6b4c5a340c8c5c9c3/Hiatus%20Requests%20e2be34467bd9473b9806bb6ffe8fd469.md) for more details on how hiatus works.
  - I wanted to be a TL/SL, can I still be one?
    - Yes! You’ll need to apply as usual and, if hired, you could still be a Labs or Flex TL or SL.
  - I’d like to take an elective, can I still do so?
    - Yes! All current UX cohorts can take the first two units of another program for their elective. To do so, you will need to complete the precourse work for that course before you finish your second unit of Labs. If you do not complete the precourse or if you don’t want to take an elective, then you will be taking Independent Study and preparing for your UX job search.
  - When will the pause be over?
    - We’re currently focusing all of our attention on our current students and helping them find the best jobs possible.

## November 15, 2019 Announcement:

At Lambda School, we aim to offer the highest-quality instruction and prepare our students to be as effective and competitive in the job market as possible. With that aim in mind, we’ve decided to pause new enrollment for UX cohorts until 2/10/20 so we can improve our curriculum and increase our focus on the current student experience. You have all provided us with an incredible amount and quality of feedback, and we will be using it to inform our curriculum efforts.

This pause should have no impact on current or former students - who will continue their journey with Lambda School’s full support.

We’ve prepared a FAQ below, but know we may not have anticipated every question. If you have any additional questions please reach out to us through the /frontdesk Slack command.

- **FAQs Regarding the Announcement:**

  - **Why is Lambda School pushing back upcoming cohort starts for the UX Program?**
    Between the wealth of student feedback we have received and our hiring manager research, we believe that we need to invest more time in our curriculum development and supporting your current experience. We recognized that we need to push back our enrollment until February so we can effectively focus on these efforts.
    This additional time will allow us to revamp the curriculum, improve our existing career support, and prepare for a re-launch in 2020.
  - **When does the program resume?**
    UX classes will continue for current students and will pause for any new cohorts. Active cohorts will continue into Lambda Labs, Ancillary Units, and Lambda X as scheduled.
    New UX starts will be moved to a 2/10/20 start date.
  - **I’m a current UX student, what does this mean for me?**
    Once the redesigned program launches, you will have access to updated Training Kit materials and recorded classes. You will also maintain access to the material you have used up to this point.
    Additionally, you will be able to utilize any structural improvements to the program that help you prepare for the job market.
  - **I’m a current UX10 or UXPT4 student, what if I need to flex?**
    By pausing enrollment until February, there will be a lapse in new cohorts trailing UX10 and UXPT4. If you do not need to Flex, you should be unaffected.
    One thing will work differently however for UX10 and UXPT4. Traditionally when a student needs to Flex, they would join the cohort that is one unit behind in the program. To account for this lapse, we've added a few alternative Flex options for students in UX10 and UXPT4 due to the unique situation. These policies apply only to the UX10 and UXPT4 cohorts and not other cohorts.
    - You can go on hiatus during the duration of the admissions pause and then later rejoin the incoming cohorts that start on 2/10/20.
      - You will be provided with a self-study schedule to ensure you’re continuing to develop your skills during this break.
    - You can transfer to a different track at Lambda such as web development (requires completion of the precourse work for that program).
    - You can withdraw completely from the program. If you elect to withdraw before 1/13/20, your ISA will be waived and/or any tuition you prepaid will be refunded. (This option only applies to UX10 and UXPT4 students).
    - For full-time students, you can switch to a part-time cohort to repeat the unit albeit at a different pace than full-time cohorts.
  - **Can I change tracks?**
    If you are part of UX10 or UXPT4, the short answer is yes. Please contact /frontdesk for more information.

  **More questions? Please reach out to us through the /frontdesk command in Slack.**

- Revision History
  October 24, 2019, shared with students October 25, 2019
  November 15, 2019, shared with students November 15, 2019
  December 15, 2019, shared with students December 13, 2019
  February 5, 2020, shared with students February 5, 2020

Copyright Lambda School 2019, All Rights Reserved
