# Core Tracks

---

Please see below for an overview of the different programs offered at Lambda. Each page will give an overview of the content contained within each program. Any changes and/or updates to programs will be shared here.

[Data Science](Core%20Tracks%203a1050cbb1eb40139eba508414329758/Data%20Science%20f03d2f509e47475e9c934d47b477c9cb.md)

[Full Stack Web Development](Core%20Tracks%203a1050cbb1eb40139eba508414329758/Full%20Stack%20Web%20Development%20efd7a00da94245ca822fff3273622b02.md)

[iOS Development](Core%20Tracks%203a1050cbb1eb40139eba508414329758/iOS%20Development%20c5be9742241945db84c25eddd103360f.md)

[UX Design](Core%20Tracks%203a1050cbb1eb40139eba508414329758/UX%20Design%208695099506e440b4ad91051029c23093.md)

- **PT FAQs - Announcement April 29, 2021**

  ## PT FAQ

  This FAQ will be added to as we have more information to share with our PT Learners.

  ### **Why are we pausing enrollment of the PT program?**

  Hundreds of graduates from our part-time programs have landed great new jobs in tech, but we want to redesign the program to be more flexible and accessible. Given the restructuring and smaller team, we need to ensure we can give every one of you the best Lambda experience through the rest of your program and job search, so we will pause enrollment to ensure we focus on current Learners and to give ourselves the space to design something new.

  ### **When will PT enrollment start again?**

  We don’t have a date to share right now, but will let you know as soon as there is any news to share.

  ### **What does this mean for me as a PT** Learner**?**

  We are committed to all of our current Learner, and your program will continue to run as expected. As always, we'll continue to make iterative improvements and changes to the program, and you'll hear about those if and when they arise. For now, you should see very little if any difference in the coming weeks.

  ### **What if I am a PT** Learner **that needs to flex?**

  - For Learners in units 2-Labs, the flex \*\*\*\*program will work as normal.
  - For Learners in unit 1, we will be reaching out with options and plans for moving forward in the program.

  ### **What does this mean for me as a FT** Learner**?**

  This change does not impact our full-time Learners.

- Revision History
  October 24, 2019, shared with students October 25, 2019

Copyright Lambda School 2019, All Rights Reserved
