# PT Units 3 & 4 LLP Orientation Follow-up

- **If peer mentorship is not a way to get answers, the way TL help was, where do we get answers? Especially for stuff our peers can't answer yet either.**
  Instructors will be available to support students at a number of different points throughout the day. Students will continue to be able to ask questions and get live responses during Guided Projects. The additional Instruction staff we’ve hired is also enabling us to offer more frequent Q&A sessions during Module Project Time (check your cohort’s calendar for specific days & times). And Instructors will be monitoring #help-channels in Slack throughout class hours to provide answers to questions asynchronously.
  There will be Support Hours and you will be able to ask the same types of questions and get similar support. The session will not be capped at a certain number of attendees like current TL Support Hours. However, Instructors that have already been running these types of sessions typically report much smaller numbers (than the Guided Project) that allow them to provide more individualized support. Just keep an eye on your cohort’s Slack channel and join when your instructor drops the Zoom link!
  These will be optional sessions that overlap with your existing Module Project Time. Specific times will depend on if you are a FT or PT student, so please check your cohort’s Google calendar. The specific activities will vary depending on the track and unit you are currently working through, but could include time for Q&A, a review of module project or sprint challenge solutions, or a discussion about how to apply current concepts to common interview questions.
- **If we were in beta track team, will we keep the same team?**
  We did our best to keep track teams from the betas together, if there were requests to do so. Unfortunately, it was not always possible.
- **Will the mock interviews be on 5th day or on Monday A week?**
  Mock interviews will be on A Week Mondays. Please see your cohort calendar for details.
